First Virus:
------------
In 1971, "Creeper" virus is a self-replicating program written by "Bob Thomas"
to infect the computer's running "TENEX" OS.

Viruses
-------
> It is also known as "Malware".

> Viruses, Worms & Trojan horses are malicious programs, that can cause
damage to the computer.

> A file containing a virus is called "Infected file".

> If that infected file is copied to another system, the virus is also
copied.

> A virus attaches itself to a program (or) an application (or) a file,
enabling it to spread from one system to the other.

> Like a human virus, computer virus can cause different types of severity.

> Some can cause mild annoying effects and some can cause damage to files,
hardware & software.

> They are intended to modify the functionality of a program. For example,
if a virus in our system, that opens with the media player, it will delete
the files our system.

> All viruses are attached to an executable file.

> A virus may exist on our computer, but it actually cannot infect our
system, untill we run or open the malicious program.

> It is important to note that, a virus cannot spread without human action.

Phases of virus:
----------------
1. Dormant Phase: In this phase, the virus is idle and it will be activated
by some events.

2. Propagation Phase: In this phase, the virus places an identical copy 
of itself into other programs.

3. Triggering Phase: In this phase, the virus is activated by some events
and to perform its functionality for which it was intended.

4. Execution Phase: In this phase, the virus will perform its functionality
 for which it was intended.

Causes of virus:
----------------
1. Infected flash drives or disks.
2. Email attachments.
3. Infected/Pornography websites.
4. Networks.
5. Pirated software.

Types of virus:
----------------
1. Parasitic virus.
2. Memory-resident virus.
3. Boot sector virus.
4. Stealth virus.
5. Polymorphic virus.
6. Macro virus.
7. E-mail virus.
8. Ripper.
9. MDMA.
10. One_Half.

Worm:
-----
> A "Worm" is similar to computer virus by design and it is considered as
the sub class of virus.

> Worms can spread from system to system, but unlike virus it has the 
capability to travel without human action.

> The biggest danger with worm is that it has the capability to replicate
itself on our system.

> Due to the copying nature of a worm and it has the capability to travel
across the networks, a worm consumes too much system memory (or) network
bandwidth.

> Worm consumes lots of computer resources, which makes our system slow.


Trojan Horse:
-------------
> A trojan horse, appears to be a useful software, but it actually do damage
to the system when it is installed.

> It is a hidden piece of code, intended to leak the sensitive information.

> The receiving end of trojan horse, usually tricked the user to open that.

> Some trojans are designed to be annoying, by changing your desktop icons
or they can cause serious damage by destroying files on our system.

> Some trojans may create a backdoor on our system, that gives malicous
users to access our system. And the personal information will be comprimised.

> Like viruse and worms, trojans do not replicate itself.  